README.rst, before:

Python iOS Template
===================

A template for building Python apps that will run under iOS.

Using this template
-------------------

1. Install `cookiecutter`_. This is a tool used to bootstrap complex project
   templates::

    $ pip install cookiecutter

2. Run ``cookiecutter`` on the Python-iOS template::

    $ cookiecutter https://github.com/pybee/Python-iOS-template

3. `Download the Python iOS support package`_, and extract it. This
   will give you two frameworks.

   * ``ffi.framework``

   * ``Python.framework``

   Alternatively, you can download the `Python-iOS-support`_ project, and
   build your own versions of these frameworks.

   These framework directories should be placed in the same directory as
   the ``src`` and ``app_packages`` directories generated by the cookiecutter
   project template.

If you've done this correctly, a project called ``myproject`` should have a
directory structure that looks something like::

    iOS/
        app_packages/
        ffi.framework/
            ...
        Python.framework/
            ...
        myproject/
            ...
        myproject.xcodeproj/
        src/
            myproject/
                __init__.py
                main.py

You're now ready to open the XCode project file, build and run your project!

Next steps
----------

Of course, just running Python code isn't very interesting by itself - you'll
be able to output to the console, and see that output in XCode, but if you
tap the app icon on your phone, you won't see anything - because there isn't a
visible console on an iPhone.

To do something interesting, you'll need to work with the native iOS system
libraries to draw widgets and respond to screen taps.

Or, you could use a library like `toga`_ that provides a cross-platform widget
toolkit that supports iOS.

If you have any external library dependencies (like `toga`, or anything other
third-party library), you should install the library code into the
``app_packages`` directory. This directory is the same as a  ``site_packages``
directory on a desktop Python install.

It's also worth noting that the ``src`` and ``app_packages`` code don't need
to contain the **actual** code. If it's more convenient to keep the code
somewhere else, you can symlink to the actual code inside the ``src`` or
``app_packages`` directory. At compile time, the symlink will be resolved and
copied to the app bundle, but during development, you can avoid having copies
of code in your source repositories.

One pattern for doing this is to have a top level project directory that
contains the source module, and an iOS directory at the same level that
links in the project source::

    myproject/
        iOS/
           src/
               myproject -> ../../myproject
        myproject/
            __init__.py
            main.py
            other.py
        setup.py

.. _cookiecutter: http://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _Download the Python iOS support package: https://github.com/pybee/Python-iOS-support/releases/download/2.7.1-b1/Python-2.7.1-iOS-support.b1.tar.gz
.. _Python-iOS-support: http://github.com/pybee/Python-iOS-support
.. _toga: http://pybee.org/toga

Commit message:

Updated instructions after introducing Rubicon to support libraries.

README.rst, after:

Python iOS Template
===================

A template for building Python apps that will run under iOS.

Using this template
-------------------

1. Install `cookiecutter`_. This is a tool used to bootstrap complex project
   templates::

    $ pip install cookiecutter

2. Run ``cookiecutter`` on the Python-iOS template::

    $ cookiecutter https://github.com/pybee/Python-iOS-template

3. `Download the Python iOS support package`_, and extract it. This
   will give you two frameworks.

   * ``ffi.framework``

   * ``Python.framework``

   Alternatively, you can download the `Python-iOS-support`_ project, and
   build your own versions of these frameworks.

   These framework directories should be placed in the same directory as
   the ``src`` and ``app_packages`` directories generated by the cookiecutter
   project template.

If you've done this correctly, a project called ``myproject`` should have a
directory structure that looks something like::

    iOS/
        app/
            myproject/
                __init__.py
                main.py
        app_packages/
        ffi.framework/
            ...
        Python.framework/
            ...
        myproject/
            ...
        myproject.xcodeproj/

You're now ready to open the XCode project file, build and run your project!

.. note:: Xcode version compatibility

   At this time, the libraries only compile work with Xcode 5.1.1 and
   earlier. See `this ticket`_ for details of a workaround if you need
   to have Xcode 6 installed on your machine.

Next steps
----------

Of course, just running Python code isn't very interesting by itself - you'll
be able to output to the console, and see that output in XCode, but if you
tap the app icon on your phone, you won't see anything - because there isn't a
visible console on an iPhone.

To do something interesting, you'll need to work with the native iOS system
libraries to draw widgets and respond to screen taps. The support libraries
you added in step 3 have the `Rubicon`_ Objective C bridging library pre-
installed to enable an easy interface with the iOS system libraries.

Alternatively, you could use a library like `toga`_ that provides a cross-platform
widget toolkit that supports iOS.

Regardless of whether you use Toga, or you write an application natively,  the
templte project will try to instantiate a ``UIApplicationMain`` instance,
using a class named ``PythonAppDelegate`` as the App delegate. If a class of
that name can't be instantiated, the error raised will be logged, and the
Python interpreter will be shut down.

If you have any external library dependencies (like ``toga``, or anything other
third-party library), you should install the library code into the
``app_packages`` directory. This directory is the same as a  ``site_packages``
directory on a desktop Python install.

It's also worth noting that the ``src`` and ``app_packages`` code don't need
to contain the **actual** code. If it's more convenient to keep the code
somewhere else, you can symlink to the actual code inside the ``src`` or
``app_packages`` directory. At compile time, the symlink will be resolved and
copied to the app bundle, but during development, you can avoid having copies
of code in your source repositories.

One pattern for doing this is to have a top level project directory that
contains the source module, and an iOS directory at the same level that
links in the project source::

    myproject/
        iOS/
           app/
               myproject -> ../../myproject
           ...
        myproject/
            __init__.py
            main.py
            other.py
        setup.py

.. _cookiecutter: http://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _Download the Python iOS support package: https://github.com/pybee/Python-iOS-support/releases/download/2.7.1-b2/Python-2.7.1-iOS-support.b2.tar.gz
.. _Python-iOS-support: http://github.com/pybee/Python-iOS-support
.. _toga: http://pybee.org/toga
.. _Rubicon: http://github.com/pybee/rubicon-objc
.. _this ticket: https://github.com/pybee/Python-iOS-template/issues/3
